---
title: "3D Printing"
author: Muchen He
date: 2018-01-15
categories: lecture
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
toc_icon: "bars"
---

##Theory of 3D Printing

There are three types of 3D printing

### Fused Deposition Modelling (FDM)

This technology melts plastic then solidify it through cooling to extrude solid layer by layer. PLA and ABS are the two kinds of plastic commonly used for printing. 

### Stereo Lithography (SLA)

This printer has very high precision. The solid is created from a resin, which is cured and hardened by laser light.

### Selective Laser Sintering (SLS)

Layers of powder spread over part and sintered by laser. The material can extends up to metals.

> **Note**: the ECE department do not have one

## Tinkerine FDM Printer

### Advantages

- Cheaper printer and material
- Durable parts
- Immediate access

### Disadvantages

- Low resolution
- Low accuracy
- Design constraints (poorer performance at support materials)

## Objet SLA Printer

### Advantages

- Can make almost anything - even parts that are impossible to machine; parts can include:
  - Thin and fragile parts
  - Working assemblies
  - Overhangs
  - Different surface finish (glossy, matte, etc)
- Professional firmware and software

### Disadvantages

- Expensive machine and material
- No immediate access
- Printed parts are very brittle


## Part Ordering

To order parts, have the parts inspected and approved. Then email [3d@ece.ubc.ca](mailto:3d@ece.ubc.ca). The subject should follow the format:

```
Course / Group / Printer
```

The body should contain:

- Number of copies
- Special material and other special instructions

Attach the quantized `.STL` files in the email.