---
title: Taking on a Large Project
author: Muchen He
date: 2018-01-10
catergories: lecture
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
toc_icon: "cog"
---

## Getting Started

1. Identify a **leader**, the leader is designated to:
   - Define problem
   - Break bigger problems down into smaller tasks
   - Assign specific tasks into individuals
   - Track progress (who does what etc.)
2. Sketch and plan the solution
   - Identify all necessary components
   - Create SimuLink model and block diagrams
   - Identify time management
     - When are tools are unavailable
     - Delay mitigation

By this time, we should know what needs to be done.

3. Review the theory for all the tasks
   - **Motor**
     - Components
     - Principles of operation
   - **Mechanical**
     - Sensors
     - Joints
     - Commutation
   - **Control**
     - Real-time programming
     - PID Control
     - System Modelling
   - **Electronics**
     - Digital
     - Power
4. Logbooks
5. Keep track of progress (GitHub and Trello)
6. Build on success
   - Start simple and add incremental features at a time

## Challenges

### Motor Group

#### Rotary

**Number of poles** are important part of the design. Poorly designed motor with bad choice of number of poles can cause **cogging**, which "eats up" torque.

#### Mechanical Design

**Mounting points** are need to be in consideration for components such as motors, load, and sensors. Consider **friction** and **binding**. **Radial load** is the load along the radial axis acted on the motor shaft. The **trust load** is the load along the length-axis of the shaft. Constraints to limit these loads are required.

#### Electrical Designed

**High currents** causes sparking when communication happens. Open circuit inductors causes sparking. Switching logic for the motors. Position sensing for the motors.

#### Stubs and Drivers

### Control Group

A microcontroller need to be picked. The **control frequency** for which everything is consistent of is important. Filtering of derivative signals (from high-frequency noise). Design **homing** procedures of relative sensors. 

A **simulation** is required to understand the models and identify the parameters.

For electronics, specify **interconnections**. Don't overlook **heat sinks** if they are required. 

Develop **PWM** and **Encoder Logic**. It's important to distinguish which specific tasks need to be implemented in software or hardware. The more stuff needs to be done in software, the lower the *control frequency*. 

#### Stubs and Drivers

**Stubs** include current driver. Scopes and LEDs can be used to test is. 

**Drivers** include **encoders**. The desired paths that is output from the controller.